The Tcl package contains the Tool Command Language, a robust general-purpose scripting language. The Expect package is written in Tcl (pronounced "tickle").

---

## 8.16.1. Installation of Tcl

This package and the next two (Expect and DejaGNU) are installed to support running the test suites for Binutils, GCC and other packages. Installing three packages for testing purposes may seem excessive, but it is very reassuring, if not essential, to know that the most important tools are working properly.

Prepare Tcl for compilation:

```shell
SRCDIR=$(pwd)
cd unix
./configure --prefix=/usr           \
            --mandir=/usr/share/man \
            --disable-rpath
```

### The meaning of the new configure parameters:

*`--disable-rpath`*

This parameter prevents hard coding library search paths (rpath) into the binary executable files and shared libraries. This package does not need rpath for an installation into the standard location, and rpath may sometimes cause unwanted effects or even security issues.

Build the package:

```shell
make

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix|/usr/lib|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR|/usr/include|"  \
    -i tclConfig.sh

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix/pkgs/tdbc1.1.10|/usr/lib/tdbc1.1.10|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.10/generic|/usr/include|"    \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.10/library|/usr/lib/tcl8.6|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.10|/usr/include|"            \
    -i pkgs/tdbc1.1.10/tdbcConfig.sh

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix/pkgs/itcl4.3.2|/usr/lib/itcl4.3.2|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/itcl4.3.2/generic|/usr/include|"    \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/itcl4.3.2|/usr/include|"            \
    -i pkgs/itcl4.3.2/itclConfig.sh

unset SRCDIR
```

The various “sed” instructions after the “make” command remove references to the build directory from the configuration files and replace them with the install directory. This is not mandatory for the remainder of LFS, but may be needed if a package built later uses Tcl.

To test the results, issue:

```shell
make test TESTFLAGS="-skip 'thread-4.5 thread-5* http* unixInit-3*'"
```

thread-4.5 and thread-5* is suppressed because it tests UB
http* is suppressed because it tries to do network i/o
unixInit-3* is suppressed due to hardcoded locale assumptions

Install the package:

```shell
make install
```

Make the installed library writable so debugging symbols can be removed later:

```shell
chmod -v u+w /usr/lib/libtcl8.6.so
```

Install Tcl's headers. The next package, Expect, requires them.

```shell
make install-private-headers
```

Now make a necessary symbolic link:

```shell
ln -sfv tclsh8.6 /usr/bin/tclsh
```

Rename a man page that conflicts with a Perl man page:

```shell
mv /usr/share/man/man3/{Thread,Tcl_Thread}.3
```

Optionally, install the documentation by issuing the following commands:

```shell
cd ..
tar -xf ../tcl8.6.16-html.tar.gz --strip-components=1
mkdir -v -p /usr/share/doc/tcl-8.6.16
cp -v -r  ./html/* /usr/share/doc/tcl-8.6.16
```