The Musl Package contains an alternative main C library· This library provides the basic routines for allocating memory, searching directories, opening and closing files, reading and writing files, string handling, pattern matching, arithmetic, and so on.

---
## 8.5.1. Installation of Musl

The `malloc` implementation used by Musl is slow. Apply the following patch to use `rpmalloc` as a faster alternative:

```shell
patch -Np1 -i ../musl-1.2.5-rpmalloc.patch
```

Patch some vulnerabilities:
```shell
patch -Np1 -i ../musl-1.2.5-iconv-fix.patch
```

Next, prepare Musl for compilation:

```shell
./configure                       \
      --prefix=/usr               \
      --with-malloc=rpmalloc
```

### The meaning of the configure options:

*`--with-malloc=rpmalloc`*
This tells Musl to use the faster `rpmalloc` `malloc` implementation.

Compile the package:

```shell
make
```

Install the package:

```shell
make install
```

## 8.5.2. Configuring Musl Libc

### 8.5.2.1. Adding nsswitch.conf

The /etc/nsswitch.conf file needs to be created because the Glibc defaults do not work well in a networked environment.

Create a new file /etc/nsswitch.conf by running the following:

```shell
cat > /etc/nsswitch.conf << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/nsswitch.conf

passwd: files
group: files
shadow: files

hosts: files dns
networks: files

protocols: files
services: files
ethers: files
rpc: files

# End /etc/nsswitch.conf
EOF
```

### 8.5.2.2. Configuring the Dynamic Loader

By default, the dynamic loader (`/lib/ld-musl-x86_64.so.1`) searches through `/usr/lib` for dynamic libraries that are needed by programs as they are run. However, if there are libraries in directories other than `/usr/lib`, these need to be added to the `/etc/ld-musl-x86_64.path` file in order for the dynamic loader to find them. Two directories that are commonly known to contain additional libraries are `/usr/local/lib` and `/opt/lib`, so add those directories to the dynamic loader's search path.

Create a new file `/etc/ld-musl-x86_64.path` by running the following:

```shell
cat > /etc/ld-musl-x86_64.path << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/ld.so.conf
/usr/lib
/usr/local/lib
/opt/lib

EOF
```

Add the `ldd` program as a symlink to libc.

```shell
case $(uname -m) in
    i?86) ln -sfv ../lib/ld-musl.so.1 /usr/bin/ldd
    ;;
    x86_64) ln -sfv ../lib/ld-musl-x86_64.so.1 /usr/bin/ldd
    ;;
esac
```