## 7.12.1. Installation of Util-linux

The FHS recommends using the `/var/lib/hwclock` directory instead of the usual `/etc` directory as the location for the `adjtime` file. Create this directory with:

```shell
mkdir -pv /var/lib/hwclock
```

Prepare Util-linux for compilation:

```shell
./configure \
    --bindir=/usr/bin     \
    --libdir=/usr/lib     \
    --runstatedir=/run    \
    --sbindir=/usr/sbin   \
    --disable-chfn-chsh   \
    --disable-login       \
    --disable-nologin     \
    --disable-su          \
    --disable-setpriv     \
    --disable-runuser     \
    --disable-pylibmount  \
    --disable-liblastlog2 \
    --disable-static      \
    --without-python      \
    --without-systemd     \
    --without-systemdsystemunitdir        \
    ADJTIME_PATH=/var/lib/hwclock/adjtime \
    CPPFLAGS="-DTPARM_VARARGS" \
    --docdir=/usr/share/doc/util-linux-2.41.1
```
The --disable and --without options prevent warnings about building components that either require packages not in LFS, or are inconsistent with programs installed by other packages.

Compile the package:

```shell
make
```

If desired, create a dummy `/etc/fstab` file to satisfy two tests and run the test suite as a non-`root` user:

> ### Warning
>
> Running the test suite as the `root` user can be harmful to your system. To run it, the CONFIG_SCSI_DEBUG option for the kernel must be available in the currently running system and must be built as a module. Building it into the kernel will prevent booting. For complete coverage, other BLFS packages must be installed. If desired, this test can be run by booting into the completed LFS system and running:
>
> ```shell
> bash tests/run.sh --srcdir=$PWD --builddir=$PWD
> ```

```shell
touch /etc/fstab
chown -R tester .
su tester -c "make -k check"
```

The _hardlink_ tests will fail if the host's kernel does not have the option `CONFIG_CRYPTO_USER_API_HASH` enabled or does not have any options providing a SHA256 implementation (for example, `CONFIG_CRYPTO_SHA256`, or `CONFIG_CRYPTO_SHA256_SSSE3` if the CPU supports Supplemental SSE3) enabled. In addition, the lsfd: inotify test will fail if the kernel option `CONFIG_NETLINK_DIAG` is not enabled.

Two other tests, lsfd: SOURCE column and utmp: last, are known to fail in the chroot environment.
Install the package:

```shell
make install
```
