The Musl Package contains an alternative main C library· This library provides the basic routines for allocating memory, searching directories, opening and closing files, reading and writing files, string handling, pattern matching, arithmetic, and so on.

---
## 5.5.1. Installation of Musl

First, create a symbolic link for LSB compliance. Additionally, for x86_64, create a compatibility symbolic link required for proper operation of the dynamic library loader.

```shell
case $(uname -m) in
    i?86) ln -sfv ld-musl.so.1 $LFS/lib/ld-lsb.so.3
    ;;
    x86_64) ln -sfv ../lib/ld-musl-x86_64.so.1 $LFS/lib64
            ln -sfv ../lib/ld-musl-x86_64.so.1 $LFS/lib64/ld-lsb-x86-64.so.3
    ;;
esac
```

> ### Note
>
> The above command is correct. The **ln** command has several syntactic versions, so be sure to check **info coreutils ln** and [ln(1)](https://man.archlinux.org/man/ln.1) before reporting what may appear to be an error.

The `malloc` implementation used by Musl is slow. Apply the following patch to use `rpmalloc` as a faster alternative:

```shell
patch -Np1 -i ../musl-1.2.5-rpmalloc.patch
```

Patch some vulnerabilities:

```shell
patch -Np1 -i ../musl-1.2.5-iconv-fix.patch
```

Next, prepare Musl for compilation:

```shell
./configure \
--prefix=/usr \
--host=$LFS_TGT \
--build=x86_64-pc-linux-gnu \
--with-malloc=rpmalloc
```

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`--host=$LFS_TGT, --build=$(../scripts/config.guess)`_
The combined effect of these switches is that Musl's build system configures itself to be cross-compiled, using the cross-linker and cross-compiler in `$LFS/tools`.

_`--with-malloc=rpmalloc`_
This makes Musl use the just-patched **rpmalloc** implementation

Compile the package:

```sh
make
```

Install the package:
> ### Warning
>
> If `LFS` is not properly set, and despite the recommendations, you are building as `root`, the next command will install the newly built Musl to your host system, which will almost certainly render it unusable. So double-check that the environment is correctly set, and that you are not `root`, before running the following command.

```sh
make DESTDIR=$LFS install
```

**The meaning of the `make install` option:**

_`DESTDIR=$LFS`_

The `DESTDIR` make variable is used by almost all packages to define the location where the package should be installed. If it is not set, it defaults to the root (`/`) directory. Here we specify that the package is installed in `$LFS`, which will become the root directory in [Section 7.4, “Entering the Chroot Environment”](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/view/stable-systemd/chapter07/chroot.html "7.4. Entering the Chroot Environment").

> ### Caution
>
>At this point, it is imperative to stop and ensure that the basic functions (compiling and linking) of the new toolchain are working as expected. To perform a sanity check, run the following commands:
>
> ```sh
> echo 'int main(){}' | $LFS_TGT-gcc -xc -
> readelf -l a.out | grep ld-musl
> ```
>
> If everything is working correctly, there should be no errors, and the output of the last command will be of the form:
> 
> ```sh
>    [Requesting program interpreter: /lib/ld-musl-x86-64.so.1]
> ```
> 
> Note that for 32-bit machines, the interpreter name will be `/lib/ld-musl.so.1.
> 
> If the output is not as shown above, or there is no output at all, then something is wrong. Investigate and retrace the steps to find out where the problem is and correct it. This issue must be resolved before continuing.
> 
> Once all is well, clean up the test file:
> 
> ```sh
> rm -v a.out
> ```

>### Note
>
> Building the packages in the next chapter will serve as an additional check that the toolchain has been built properly. If some package, especially Binutils-pass2 or GCC-pass2, fails to build, it is an indication that something has gone wrong with the preceding Binutils, GCC, or Musl installations.